#summary Engine functions are the base functions use to initialize, start, and stop GMOgre3D.
<br>
=== InitializeOgre3D() ===
----
Initializes the GMOgre3D engine.  This needs to be called before any other GMOgre3D functions are called.
<br>
<br>
<br>
=== IsOgre3DInitialized() ===
----
Returns true if the GMOgre3D engine has been initialized.
<br>
<br>
<br>
=== StartOgre3DEngine(render_engine) ===
----
Starts the GMOgre3D engine.  After calling this all drawing of the GM window is taken over by the GMOgre3D DLL.
====Parameters====
  * render_engine - The type of renderer to use. Possible values are:
    * RENDER_DX9
    * RENDER_GL
<br>
<br>
=== StopOgre3DEngine() ===
----
Shuts down the GMOgre3D engine.  After calling this GM is again able to draw to the GM window.
<br>
<br>
<br>
=== GetOgre3DVersion() ===
----
Returns the version number of the GMOgre3D engine.
<br>
<br>
<br>
=== EnableWaitForVSync(real enable) ===
----
Enables or disables monitor vsync.

Must be called before StartOgre3DEngine().
====Parameters====
   * _enable_ - Whether to enable or disable vsync.
<BR>
<BR>
=== SetFSAA(real type, real level) ===
----
Sets fullscreen anti-aliasing type and quality level.

The following combinations are valid:
  * FSAA type 0, FSAA quality level 0
  * FSAA type 1, FSAA quality level 0
  * FSAA type 1, FSAA quality level 1
  * FSAA type 1, FSAA quality level 2
  * FSAA type 2, FSAA quality level 0
  * FSAA type 4, FSAA quality level 0
  * FSAA type 6, FSAA quality level 0

Must be called before StartOgre3DEngine().
====Parameters====
   * _type_ - FSAA type.  Can be 0, 1, 2, 4, or 6.
   * _level_ - FSAA quality level.  Can be: 0, 1, or 2.
<BR>
<BR>