#summary Various functions to control the mouse.
<BR>
<BR>
=== !EnableMouseLook(real camera_id, real enable) ===
----
Enables or disables the ability to let the user use their mouse to automatically rotate the specified camera in any direction (yaw/pitch).

!UpdateMouseLook must be called every frame in order for mouse look to work properly.
====Parameters====
   * _camera_id_ - The ID of the camera to rotate.
   * _enable_ - Whether to enable or disable mouse look.
<BR>
<BR>
=== !UpdateMouseLook() ===
----
Updates the camera rotation for the currently enabled mouse look.  This must be called every frame to ensure the camera is rotated correctly.
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
=== !EnableMouseCursor(real enable) ===
----
Enables or disables showing of the mouse cursor.

If mouse look is turned on the mouse cursor is automatically disabled.
====Parameters====
   * _enable_ - Whether to enable or disable mouse cursor.
<BR>
<BR>
=== !LimitMouseLookPitch(real degrees) ===
----
Limits the amount of pitch to be applied when mouse look is enabled.

A mouse pitch of 0 means the camera is looking straight ahead, parallel to the ground.
====Parameters====
   * _degrees_ - The number of degrees the camera cam be pitched up or down.
<BR>
<BR>
=== !GetMouseXPos(real val) ===
----
Returns the x position of the mouse on the screen.

Mouse look should be disabled for this to work properly.
====Parameters====
   * _val_ - The x position of the mouse on the screen.
<BR>
<BR>
=== !GetMouseYPos(real val) ===
----
Returns the y position of the mouse on the screen.

Mouse look should be disabled for this to work properly.
====Parameters====
   * _val_ - The y position of the mouse on the screen.
<BR>
<BR>
=== !SetMousePos(real x, real y) ===
----
Sets the mouse cursor to the specified position on the screen.

Mouse look should be disabled for this to work properly.
====Parameters====
   * _x_, _y_ - The x/y position of the mouse on the screen.
<BR>
<BR>