#summary Overview of standard particle emitter scripts.

== Standard Particle Emitters ==
Ogre comes preconfigured with a few particle emitters. New ones can be added by creating plugins: see the Plugin_ParticleFX project as an example of how you would do this (this is where these emitters are implemented).
  * [#Point_Emitter Point Emitter]
  * [#Box_Emitter Box Emitter]
  * [#Cylinder_Emitter Cylinder Emitter]
  * [#Ellipsoid_Emitter Ellipsoid Emitter]
  * [#Hollow_Ellipsoid_Emitter Hollow Ellipsoid Emitter]
  * [#Ring_Emitter Ring Emitter]
<BR>
== Point Emitter  ==
This emitter emits particles from a single point, which is it's position. This emitter has no additional attributes over an above the standard emitter attributes.

To create a point emitter, include a section like this within your particle system script:
{{{	
emitter Point
{
    // Settings go here
}
}}}
Please note that the name of the emitter ('Point') is case-sensitive.
<BR>
<BR>
== Box Emitter ==
This emitter emits particles from a random location within a 3-dimensional box. It's extra attributes are:
  * _width_ - Sets the width of the box (this is the size of the box along it's local X axis, which is dependent on the 'direction' attribute which forms the box's local Z).
{{{
    format: width <units>
    example: width 250
    default: 100
}}}
  * _height_ - Sets the height of the box (this is the size of the box along it's local Y axis, which is dependent on the 'direction' attribute which forms the box's local Z).
{{{
    format: height <units>
    example: height 250
    default: 100
}}}
  * _depth_ - Sets the depth of the box (this is the size of the box along it's local Z axis, which is the same as the 'direction' attribute).
{{{
    format: depth <units>
    example: depth 250
    default: 100
}}}
To create a box emitter, include a section like this within your particle system script:
{{{
emitter Box
{
    // Settings go here
}
}}}
<BR>
== Cylinder Emitter ==
This emitter emits particles in a random direction from within a cylinder area, where the cylinder is oriented along the Z-axis. This emitter has exactly the same parameters as the Box Emitter so there are no additional parameters to consider here - the width and height determine the shape of the cylinder along it's axis (if they are different it is an ellipsoid cylinder), the depth determines the length of the cylinder.
<BR>
<BR>
== Ellipsoid Emitter ==
This emitter emits particles from within an ellipsoid shaped area, ie a sphere or squashed-sphere area. The parameters are again identical to the Box Emitter, except that the dimensions describe the widest points along each of the axes.
<BR>
<BR>
== Hollow Ellipsoid Emitter ==
This emitter is just like Ellipsoid Emitter except that there is a hollow area in the center of the ellipsoid from which no particles are emitted. Therefore it has 3 extra parameters in order to define this area:
  * _inner_width_ - The width of the inner area which does not emit any particles. 
  * _inner_height_ - The height of the inner area which does not emit any particles. 
  * _inner_depth_ - The depth of the inner area which does not emit any particles. 
<BR>
== Ring Emitter ==
This emitter emits particles from a ring-shaped area, ie a little like Hollow Ellipsoid Emitter except only in 2 dimensions.
  * _inner_width_ - The width of the inner area which does not emit any particles. 
  * _inner_height_ - The height of the inner area which does not emit any particles. 

See also: 3.3 Particle Scripts, 3.3.2 Particle Emitters
<BR>
<BR>
== Emitting Emitters ==
It is possible to spawn new emitters on the expiry of particles, for example to product 'firework' style effects. This is controlled via the following directives:
  * _emit_emitter_quota_ - This parameter is a system-level parameter telling the system how many emitted emitters may be in use at any one time. This is just to allow for the space allocation process. 
  * _name_ - This parameter is an emitter-level parameter, giving a name to an emitter. This can then be referred to in another emitter as the new emitter type to spawn when an emitted particle dies. 
  * _emit_emitter_ - This is an emitter-level parameter, and if specified, it means that when particles emitted by this emitter die, they spawn a new emitter of the named type. 